---
tags:
  - Location
---
- Central sea formed by the [[Cataclysm]]
- Trade goes around the inner circle, avoiding the Fray
- Ships that make long hauls in the sea must be built with saltwood hulls
- Trade winds circle the sea, keeps the Fray from spreading beyond (like a cyclone) - generated by Coriolis effect


# The Fray

- Supernatural phenomenon at the center of the sea
- An arcane vacuum / a hole in the Weave created by the Cataclysm
	- No magic under its influence
	- Fray and its wraiths hunger for magic to fill a void
- Ocean water turns milky white, sublimating into bright white fog
- Storm, stillwater, lightning. Navigation systems fail
- violet lightning crackles within the mists
- storm-stalkers pace the horizon
- Fray-wraiths: those who died to original Cataclysm and later to the Fray
	- spellcasting has a chance of summoning wraiths?
- Circular waterfall at center (a mouth) - goddess in the center
### Fray Exposure
- Most living creatures are not adapted to an environment that is cut off from the Weave; prolonged inhalation of the mists, or consuming its waters will cause adverse effects. 
- Ppl who have prolonged exposure become bleached and worn looking - premature age lines, whitened hair tips
- Make a WIS saving throw at the end of each day that you spend in the Fray. The DC starts at 12, and increases by 1 for each successive day spent in the Fray. On a failed save, you gain one level of exposure. Exposure effects do stack.
- Some wraith attacks can force a Fray Exposure save

| Level | Effect                                                               | Cure?                       |
| ----- | -------------------------------------------------------------------- | --------------------------- |
| 1     | Magic abilities have a 25% chance of failing                         | Spend 1 day out of the Fray |
| 2     | Short or long rests do not restore abilities (but do restore health) | Lesser Restoration          |
| 3     |                                                                      | Greater Restoration         |
| 4     | Fray Madness                                                                     | Greater Restoration         |
| 5     | Death / Corruption to wraith                                         | Permanent                   |

- Fray Madness: You feel a constant, deep, biting hunger. Anytime someone near you uses magic, you turn violent and try to attack them. You lose your senses until you are forcibly subdued. Those with Fray Madness feel a constant desire to consume the flesh of other magic users, and if they cannot get it, turn to auto-cannibalism.  
- Magic abilities include: spells, ki, bardic inspiration, etc

Secondary effects (sprinkle in for flavor):
- A sickly coldness in the pit of your stomach, like a heavy weight. Your extremities feel numb
- You feel cold all the time. Your pulse slows
- You find yourself randomly forgetting why you're here, or what you were doing just before
- Your eyes and hair bleach white
- You feel a hungry pit inside of you - the absence of the Weave